(Written from the perspective of a historian / myth expert in-world)
=== World Overview ===
The world of Eirial (Air-aye-ell). Now that is a story worth telling. It is but a shadow of its former self.   Millenia ago, the world, the planes, and all life was formed at the stroke of a quill. Purely myth, mind you. Everyone knows that the Gods existed since the beginning and created all that we are and all that we see.

In the beginning, the Gods made themselves known. They would walk amongst mankind, performing minor miracles for their favored devotees. They would curse and besmirch the legacies of their siblings followers. Make your offerings appropriately, and no harm would befall your family. Such a simple time.

Ages passed, love was made, wars were fought. People continued their menial lives. The devotion to the Gods began to wain as magic and technology took hold. Some say that the Gods were usurped, banished from their own domain and forces to live amongst their followers. Others say they simply grew weary of providing for the thankless masses.

What we do know though, and still feel to this day: The connection that mortals had with the Gods began to die. The magic that once emboldened the mortals, began to twist and turn. Practitioners of the arts became fewer and further between. Some took up the mantle of the protector. Many let the power go their heads. Some, left entirely, no longer wishing to deal with the plight of the ‘no-mag’.

In the years since “The Great Fall”, there have been numerous theories as to what happened to the Gods. Many say that the Gods still live among us, disguising themselves from a threat to their existence. Others claim to have spoken with a God directly, remarking on their rather flippant attitude. Me personally? I believe that they just got fed up and needed a break.   The Gods still provide for us, you see. They didn’t remove the construct by which mortals were granted access to magic. They didn’t stop creating new species of creature and manner of men. I believe they just took a back seat to focus on their “desired” projects. And we a’int it.   There’s still, to this day, connections we’ve yet to regain. Every few decades, there’ll be a “spark” of new life. As quickly as it’s created, it seems to be snuffed. But that’s still the big mystery isn’t it? What happened, why did it happen, and do we even want to fix it?   Historians such as myself have traveled the lands, searching for the ‘Prime Temples’ - those said to be the first ever built to the Gods. Nary a one has been found. Even if it had, my guess is that it’s just dust and dilapidated rock at this point. We’re all just fools chasing the old tale anyways.   At around the time of The Great Fall, devotees of Lorein began to spread the notion that some great prophecy must be fulfilled to return to the graces of the Gods. Utter nonsense. If you’re so inclined, read it yourself: “Through birth lies death, and the life between. Not one shall rise! Remain unseen. Power stolen, must be returned. Fate was altered, yet pyres burned. Amongst the shadows, they did grow. They seek the words, to chaos sow. The book unbound, shattered, broken. Reveal the birth, receive the token. Caged, imprisoned, darkness creeps. From the binding, power seeps. Once complete, speak the truth. Lest the darkness be let loose.”  A whole bunch of mumbo jumbo if you ask me: the ramblings of a dying God.
